let's start this hour in the Middle East
as President Joe Biden has approved
sanctions on four Israeli settlers
accused of attacking Palestinians in the
occupied West Bank the sanctions block
the individuals from accessing all of us
property assets and the American
Financial system violence in the West
Bank has spiked since Hamas launched an
unprecedented attack on Israel on
October the 7th Mr Biden signed a broad
executive order saying violence in the
West Bank had reach reached intolerable
levels threatening peace and stability
in the region well our Middle East
correspondent Nick beak is in Jerusalem
and gave his analysis on what this says
about tensions between Israel and the US
this is significant and also symbolic
and as you say it's the first time the
Administration has imposed these sort of
sanctions and just listening to White
House officials they say that they
mirror the kind of measures that
normally would be put on terrorist
suspects or terrorist
sympathizers to use their terminology
and the reason for this the White House
says is that the the levels of settler
violence against Palestinians in the
West Bank has reached an intolerable
level and they say it's not just
Palestinians there who are suffering but
also the prospects of a peace deal in
the future a two-state solution are all
being undermined by this and so that's
why this action's been taken it means
for example these four individuals won't
be able to access any funds any
donations or money that might be coming
from the United States as well as not
being able to to travel there now the
the Israeli government here LED of
course by prime minister Benjamin Nyah
who was said these aren't needed because
they're already taking tough action
against settlers and any violence there
and also within the settler movement
here in Israel they've condemned this
action by the us too and Nick let's also
talk about this potential progress to a
ceasefire uh in the fighting in Gaza
what is the latest in those
conversations what's happening behind
the scenes and of course there's also
the conversations about the release of
those Israeli hostages all going
on absolutely I mean for the the
families of the hostages who were taken
by Hamas on October the 7th as well of
course of the people of of Gaza a a
peace deal some sort of ceasefire can't
come soon enough and some hope has been
generated in the past 24 hours or so uh
in particular because of comments from
the foreign Ministry in Qatar saying
that Hamas was looking at a deal and had
been broadly optimistic and had been
broadly accepting of it just to sort of
rewind a little bit you might remember
back in November katar the Gulf State
played a really leading role a crucial
role in getting the initial wave of
hostages released at the weekend there
were these talks between Israeli
American qari and Egyptian officials
basically spy Chiefs people who normally
do all their work in the shadows behind
closed doors so there was this
conversation uh in Paris at the weekend
and now behind the scenes the diplomacy
and the the work continues so at the
moment there isn't any deal but if you
look at the Israeli newspapers this
morning and the and the websites this is
the lead story for everyone there is
cautious optimism cautious though that
we may be inching towards a deal but as
is often the case you know it might come
very very quickly or it might be that
there are stumbling blocks that means
behind the scenes the
negotiations negotiations continue for
some days and some weeks so we're in
this process but hard to assess at what
point we're at at the moment Frankie
Nick beak in Jerusalem just speaking to
me a little earlier on